Configuring WAFV2 with API gateway (#214)
MechanicalRock/mechanicalrock.github.io: _posts/2022-03-16-aws-wafv2-association-with-api-gateway.md

---
layout: post
title: "AWS WAFV2 association with API Gateway"
date: 2022-03-16
tags: AWS API WAFV2
author: Dale Murugan
image: img/lock.png
---

> I recently had to attach a Web Application Firewall (WAF) regional Access Control List (ACL) to an API gateway created using the [Serverless Framework](https://www.serverless.com/). The only quality documentation I could find was from our very own Natalie Lang in this [post](https://mechanicalrock.github.io/2019/09/26/aws-waf-association-with-api-gateway.html) she wrote back in 2019. I ran into an issue where my WebAcl would not properly associate to the API. After some research I found that many others also faced this issue, mainly because the ‘Classic WAF’ has been deemed [outdated](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/waf/latest/developerguide/classic-waf-chapter.html) by AWS.

Reviewer: Change `WebAcl` to `WebACL`

> I recently had to attach a Web Application Firewall (WAF) regional Access Control List (ACL) to an API gateway created using the [Serverless Framework](https://www.serverless.com/). The only quality documentation I could find was from our very own Natalie Lang in this [post](https://mechanicalrock.github.io/2019/09/26/aws-waf-association-with-api-gateway.html) she wrote back in 2019. I ran into an issue where my WebAcl would not properly associate to the API. After some research I found that many others also faced this issue, mainly because the ‘Classic WAF’ has been deemed [outdated](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/waf/latest/developerguide/classic-waf-chapter.html) by AWS.

Author: Corrected and LinkedIn link included.

> I recently had to attach a Web Application Firewall (WAF) regional Access Control List (ACL) to an API gateway created using the [Serverless Framework](https://www.serverless.com/). The only quality documentation I could find was from our very own [Natalie Laing](https://au.linkedin.com/in/natalie-laing-652a9131) in this [post](https://mechanicalrock.github.io/2019/09/26/aws-waf-association-with-api-gateway.html) she wrote back in 2019. I ran into an issue where my WebACL would not properly associate to the API. After some research I found that many others also faced this issue, mainly because the ‘Classic WAF’ has been deemed [outdated](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/waf/latest/developerguide/classic-waf-chapter.html) by AWS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I recently had to attach a Web Application Firewall (WAF) regional Access Control List (ACL) to an API gateway created using the [Serverless Framework](https://www.serverless.com/). The only quality documentation I could find was from our very own [Natalie Laing](https://au.linkedin.com/in/natalie-laing-652a9131) in this [post](https://mechanicalrock.github.io/2019/09/26/aws-waf-association-with-api-gateway.html) she wrote back in 2019. I ran into an issue where my WebACL would not properly associate to the API. After some research I found that many others also faced this issue, mainly because the ‘Classic WAF’ has been [deprecated](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/waf/latest/developerguide/classic-waf-chapter.html) by AWS.
```

Better wording?

AWS [WAFV2](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/waf/latest/APIReference/Welcome.html) is the latest version of the AWS WAF API released in November 2019. Configuring the WAFV2 with an API is pretty straightforward, however, there are little resources available online. Hence, this post is to help those who are as lost as I was configuring a WAFV2 with an API gateway.

### Things to be aware of

I got the tip on these ahead of my implementation thanks to Natalie’s [article](https://mechanicalrock.github.io/2019/09/26/aws-waf-association-with-api-gateway.html).

- YAML indentation - I’d recommend installing [cfn-lint](https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cfn-lint), a huge help for formatting YAML files and catching bugs early.

> - Formatting your API Gateway ARN, you will need this to associate it to the WebACL. This should look like:

Reviewer 3: ARN - what is it?

Author: Corrected

    Rules:
      - Name: SQLInject-RuleSet
        Priority: 0
        Statement:
          ManagedRuleGroupStatement:
            VendorName: AWS
            Name: AWSManagedRulesSQLiRuleSet
        OverrideAction:
          None: {}
        VisibilityConfig:
          SampledRequestsEnabled: true
          CloudWatchMetricsEnabled: true
          MetricName: SQLInjection-ruleset-metric

WebACLAssociation:
  Type: "AWS::WAFv2::WebACLAssociation"
  Properties:
    WebACLArn: !GetAtt WebACL.Arn
    ResourceArn: !Ref ApiARN
```

I have used Amazon's Managed Rules to do the hard work of SQL injection blocking. You can see the other rule sets available [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/waf/latest/developerguide/aws-managed-rule-groups-list.html)

If your API was created using the Serverless Framework you will need to run `npm i serverless-associate-waf`.
In your serverless.yml you will need to utilize this plugin:

```
plugins:
    - serverless-associate-waf
```

You will then need to append the following snippet:

```
custom:
  associateWaf:
    name:  WebACLSQLi
    version: V2
```

The name must be the name you specified in your WebACL.

### Wrapping up

> And voila, that's it. Simple right? It took me countless hours to get this configuration right. Hopefully after reading this post you won't have to!

Reviewer 3: you won't have to!

You won't have to what? Waste hours too?

Author: good call- corrected
